Sat, Oct 24th, 2015.



“We declare our right on this earth...to be a human being, to be respected as a human being, to be given the rights of a human being in this society, on this earth, in this day, which we intend to bring into existence by any means necessary.” – Malcolm X

Following the tragic murders in Charleston, SC a powerful international conversation spawned behind the hashtag #WeWillShootBack. The goal of the hashtag was to declare that Black people have a right to defend themselves, their families, and communities. During the conversation, many critical points were discussed among the people. People expressed the need for an understanding of the history of self-defense and Black militant resistance, knowledge of gun rights and ownership, and application of self-defense in today’s society. After analyzing these needs from the people, it was decided that a national event centered around gun registry would be a productive follow-up action to the hashtag. 

#ArmedNAware is a national call to action for individuals and organizations to participate in a National Black Gun Registry Day, where we hope to elevate awareness on the importance of self-defense and militant resistance in the Black liberation struggle. We are asking people to organize events in their respective communities on October 24th based on gun registry and self-defense for Black people. We are not only focusing on the “armed” aspect, but we emphasize the “aware” part as well. This is not a call for people to haphazardly arm themselves, or for wanton violence against whites. This is a call for Black people to become responsible gun owners and why it is important to the overall liberation struggle. Gun registry is the main action of this day, however elevating awareness on self-defense and militant resistance is the true purpose. 

We believe at this point in the movement it is critical that we begin creating space for those who support Black people’s right to self-defense. Our history of self-defense and militant resistance is deeply rooted. Due to the powers that be, the knowledge of this history is often hidden from those who haven’t deliberately looked for it. #ArmedNAware will allow people to see that self-defense is indeed a human right and very necessary to oppressed people’s liberation. We are not presenting self-defense and militant resistance as the “solution” to oppression, but rather a critical part of a multi-faceted solution. 

This event is done in the revolutionary spirits of all our ancestors who knew the importance of being able to defend ourselves, among other things. We highlight such names and organizations such as Denmark Vesey, Nat Turner, Harriett Tubman, Queen Mother Moore, Malcolm X, Assata Shakur, Deacons of Defense, The Black Panther Party, Robert F. Williams, MOVE, and countless others. 

For those interested in organizing #ArmedNAware events, please email: armednaware@gmail.com.